♪ Every case in the forest ♪
♪ Is challenging and difficult ♪
♪ Detective Toby and Teri ♪
♪ Will find the answer ♪
♪ We're the best case solvers ♪
♪ Detective Toby and Teri ♪
♪ We are the best partners ♪
LITTLE DETECTIVES
TOBY & TERI
[panting]
Boy, this is heavy.
I got it, Jay. Don't worry.
Put it right here.
Just let me
put in some windows.
Look. Windows
and little stones and--
Oh, this is the greatest
sand castle ever!
I know, right?
And we are the noble knights
who will protect it.
I'm ready. I'm noble.
You can protect it tomorrow.
It's getting late.
[Bean] Is that the Moon?!
I love drawing the Moon,
but if it's up,
that means it's gonna
be really dark soon.
You're right.
We can be knights tomorrow.
Noble knights!
I'm going to make
cardboard swords!
[all] Noble knights
with cardboard swords! Yay!
[laughing]
[Teri humming a tune]
Hmm?
Hmm.
[resumes humming]
Hmm?
[Toby gasps]
[grunts]
Were you following me?
It's what detectives do.
I don't think
they follow their sisters.
That's what they
want you to think.
-[Rumy] Hey, Tobi, Teri...
-[bears] Huh?
we have a problem!
[Toby] Uh-oh. Look.
It's Rumy.
Something's not right.
What's wrong?
Look what happened
to our sand castle.
What sand castle?
The one we had sworn to protect.
We're noble knights
with cardboard swords.
And we built
the best sand castle ever,
but now it's gone.
My bet is
somebody with a bulldozer
rolled through here
and wrecked it!
No one we know owns a bulldozer.
And we would have heard
some noise.
We need to know what happened
to our sand castle.
It doesn't make any sense.
Sounds like we've got a case.
Will you excuse us?
To the treehouse!
[camera clicks]
Who or what wrecked
that sand castle?
That's what
we're going to find out.
Until we do,
no sand castle is safe.
There's a lot at stake.
There always is, little brother.
There always is.
Let's do this.
♪ Looking for clues ♪
♪ Check the scene ♪
♪ Any cases ♪
♪ Little detectives ♪
♪ Can solve it ♪
[together]
Let's ace this case!
What do we do?
I'm worried we'll never be able
to build another sand castle.
Don't worry, Rumy.
It'll be all right. I promise.
Now, what does this to sand?
Bulldozers!
It was water! This sand is wet.
So bulldozers...
full of water!
[sniffs]
Salt! The water is salty.
Salty water at the beach.
Your sand castle
was washed away by...
♪ Da-da-da ♪
the ocean!
But if the ocean washed away
our sand castle,
shouldn't the water be up here?
Yeah, the castle was here,
and the ocean's way down there.
But it was up here last night.
Look at the wet sand.
You can see
right where it stopped.
That means
if you build a new castle
on this side of your stick,
where it's dry,
the ocean won't wash it away.
So we can build a new castle?
Absolutely!
And this time, the noble knights
won't let anything
happen to it!
[all] Noble knights
with cardboard swords!
Yay!
We'll stay all night
if we have to.
Uh, we will?
Uh, yeah, we will.
We still don't know
what made the ocean
come all the way here.
Time to follow the facts
and see where they lead.
That's the ocean.
So what would make the ocean
come way up here?
So the ocean rises
and falls again each day.
But why?
Is there something pushing it?
Hmm.
[laughing]
[Rumy and Bean]
Halt! Who goes there?!
[all laughing]
[humming a tune]
[Bean yawns]
[all snoring]
[gasps]
Bean, did you touch my foot?
No. I'm over here.
Don't say you didn't if you did.
It's not nice.
Bean didn't touch your foot.
Look!
Eh?
-[yelps]
-Where did that come from?
Wasn't it supposed to stop
at Teri's stick?
Jay, you and I will get help.
Rumy, you and Bean stay here
and defend the castle.
-Mm-hmm.
We can do it, Rumy.
Stay back, ocean!
Don't come any closer!
Anything?
Maybe.
I tried a bunch of stuff,
and then I found my magnet.
Look what it does
to the paper clips.
Wow. The magnet
pulls the paper clips
up your make-believe beach.
So something out there
is pulling on the ocean.
Like a magnet, but what?
[knock on door]
Toby, Teri, come quick!
-You have to see this!
-Mm-hmm.
[gasps]
The ocean got our castle again!
And look at our swords!
We're noble knights
with soggy swords.
[Teri] The ocean's higher
than it was last night.
So whatever is pulling on it
is stronger tonight
than last night.
But if something was different,
we'd see it.
The Moon's so bright,
it's almost like daytime.
[Toby] The Moon is bright
and really big.
[Teri] I think it's bigger
than it was last night.
We can check if you want.
I've been drawing pictures
every night.
Look at this picture
I drew last night...
and this new one.
The Moon
looks extra close tonight.
Could the Moon
work like a magnet?
If it did, it would totally
make the ocean rise and fall.
It does.
Just like the Earth,
the Moon has a natural pull
called "gravity."
And that pulls on the ocean?
Yes. The Moon's gravity
makes the ocean rise and fall.
They call that "the tide,"
and when
the Moon is extra close...
The tide is extra high.
Exactly.
So there's nothing
anyone can do to stop it.
Even noble knights.
So let's not try.
Let's be noble knights
of the majestic Moon!
[knights] Noble Knights
of the Majestic Moon!
[Bean]
With super soggy swords.
-Yay!
-[all laughing]
Cool.
[Rumy] Look at our new castle,
ready for the next high tide.
There are tides
during the day, right?
There are! The Moon pulls
on the ocean all the time.
But this time, we're ready!
[gasping]
-Wow!
-[laughs]
Looks like
the work of noble knights.
I'd say we aced this case.
[all laughing]
Say, "Sand castle"!
-Sand castle!
[camera clicks]
So the ocean rises and falls
every day.
And the closer the Moon is,
the higher the tide
comes up the beach.
Like when you used the magnet
to pull on the paper clips.
I never guessed
that using the clues
-would take us to the Moon.
-Me neither.
Time to close this case.
♪ Finding clues ♪
♪ We solved the case ♪
♪ Follow the facts ♪
♪ The case is now solved ♪
♪ We are detective Toby and Teri ♪
[together] The Case
of the Collapsing Castle
is officially closed.
This is going to be
the coolest clubhouse ever!
-It's amazing!
-I know,
but we need more sticks.
I'll get 'em.
[gasps]
Oh, these are perfect.
[laughs]
Whoa!
[bird yells]
[gasping] Oh!
Eh?
Uh-- Oh!
[gasps]
Oh. Uh, my wing!
Oh, m-my poor wing.
The pain. The suffering!
Help me! Come on!
Wait! I'll help you!
[bird] Uh, ouch!
You follow me! Heh!
That's what you do! I'm hurt!
Can't you see?!
Help me! Come on!
Wait up! I can help!
[Jay] Wait! Hold on!
Hey!
[grunts]
Hello? Where'd the bird go?
I don't know.
Yeah, she was just here.
And you say she was hurt?
Really hurt, and she
really wanted us to follow her.
Hide me.
From what?
Millie? What are you doing?
I want to be like my hero,
Dr. Quillhare.
She's a brilliant, caring doctor
who balances an inspiring
commitment to her work
with a full and satisfying
personal life.
[laughs]
Tell your brother to come over
and stick out his tongue.
Not now, Millie.
There's a hurt bird.
Toby and Teri need
to find out where it's gone.
A hurt bird?
Sounds like we've got a case.
Will you excuse us?
To the treehouse!
[camera clicks]
That poor bird is hurt.
We can't help her
unless we find her.
There's a lot at stake.
There always is, little brother.
There always is.
Let's do this!
♪ Looking for clues ♪
♪ Check the scene ♪
♪ Any cases ♪
♪ Little detectives ♪
♪ can solve it ♪
[together]
Let's ace this case!
So you say
she went through here?
Yeah, and just like that,
she disappeared.
[gasps]
The tracks stop right here.
You think she flew away?
No. She had a hurt wing.
She told us,
and she waved it around
like this.
Have no fear!
The doctor's here!
Have we located
the patient yet?
The hurt bird?
Not yet,
but Toby and I are on the case.
[gasps]
Rumy, you look hot.
I was running, but I'm fine.
Better to be safe.
Say, "Ahhh."
Uh, no, thank you.
Fine, but we need
to find that bird.
She needs a doctor.
How can we help?
Once Toby and Teri find her,
we'll need a place to take her.
We could use your fort
as a hospital,
-if you don't mind.
-That'd be cool.
Do we do something special?
Yes! When you're
finished building it,
just put this over the door.
[Jay] Wow! It looks
just like a hospital!
[Bean] Just a few more sticks,
and we're done.
More sticks comin' up!
[bird yells]
[gasping]
My poor foot!
Now I hurt my foot.
Ah, the agony, the misery!
Quick. I'm over here.
Come on! Follow me!
She's gone again!
Wow. Just think
how fast she would be
if her foot wasn't hurt.
That's strange.
Her foot wasn't hurt before.
Better tell Toby and Teri.
[gasps]
Teri, look.
That's the smallest feather
I've ever seen.
It's a clue.
That's where the hurt bird was.
She ran right through there.
But you said that, this time,
she had a hurt foot.
Yeah, this one.
But last time,
didn't you say it was her wing?
Yeah, it was this one.
Sounds like
she really needs a doctor.
Or maybe she's not really hurt.
[groans] Then she
wouldn't need a doctor at all.
Let's go back to the treehouse.
It's time to follow the facts
and see where they lead.
Oh, it's not fair.
There's always detective stuff
for Toby and Teri,
but no one needs a doctor.
Just one patient is all I want.
Uh, cough.
[coughing]
Cough!
Oh, Rumy, it sounds
like you've got a cold.
Say, "Ahhh!"
Ahhh.
We have a bird
with a broken wing...
That flew away.
She showed up with a hurt foot.
Bean and Rumy
couldn't catch her,
because she ran too fast.
I think she's faking,
but why make believe
you're hurt?
I think I know.
She always wants Rumy
and the others to follow her,
but she runs off
in different directions.
Look. She always leads everyone
away from that same tree.
What's she got behind there?
Have we used all the clues?
The feather!
We forgot the feather,
the one she left behind.
This belongs to a baby bird.
That means she must have
a nest behind the tree.
Sure. And when anyone
gets too close,
she acts like she's hurt
to lead them
away from her babies!
So we follow her
instead of bothering her babies.
Looks like we've found our bird.
This has gotta be her.
[sighs]
[Teri] Are you all right?
He will be soon.
Rumy had a nasty cough,
but I've made him hot tea
with lemon and honey.
Huh? Hey, that's the bird!
[bird gasps]
Let me talk to her.
Yes! She's a killdeer.
Hello?
Could you come out, please?
We just want to talk to you.
[bird yelps]
Oh! Hey, over here!
[gasps]
[bird gasping]
[hums a tune]
Ah! My head!
My leg!
Oh, my!
I hurt my wing! Ohh!
Agony! Agony! Ohh!
[gasps] I can't go on.
It's too much! [sobs]
Oh, the pain! Ohh!
[groaning]
Wait! Let me help you!
Don't!
She's pretending she's hurt
so you'll follow her
away from her babies.
So what do we do?
Ignore her, like this.
[all humming a tune]
My-- My elbow!
Oh, I don't even have an elbow.
But-- But my foot.
Not the foot from before,
but the other foot.
Hello? Anybody?
Wanna chase me?
No, but don't worry.
We're not gonna bother
your babies.
That's why you're doing this,
isn't it,
to keep us
from finding your nest?
Ah, that's right.
How did you know?
We just used the clues, ma'am.
It's what detectives do.
I'm sorry I was faking.
It's okay. I was faking, too.
[gasps]
[gasps] Oops.
You were just so disappointed
when no one needed a doctor.
So nobody's sick at all?
I really would be a good doctor
if someone
would just give me a chance.
You'd be a great doctor, Millie.
Wait. Are you a doctor?
Yes.
A brilliant and caring doctor
who balances an inspiring
commitment to her work
with a full
and satisfying personal life.
My poor babies all have colds.
[gasps]
I happen to have an opening
in my schedule just now.
Let's have a look.
[chicks chirping]
The tea will make them
feel better.
I'll be back in the morning
to give them a little more.
Thank you, Doctor.
No problem.
It's what good doctors do.
Well, you're very good,
very good indeed.
Thanks. I'm glad I could help.
[all laughing]
Everybody say, "Chicks"!
-Chicks!
[camera clicks]
I'm glad we showed mama bird
we just wanted to help.
I'm glad Millie
got to take care of someone.
It was a good day
to be a detective.
Time to close this case.
♪ Finding clues ♪
♪ We solved the case ♪
♪ Follow the facts ♪
♪ The case is now solved ♪
♪ We are detective Toby and Teri ♪
[together]
The Case of the Hurt Bird
is officially closed.